# Flutter Basics

### Creating a New Project
Instead, if you have multiple words, separate them with underscores.
And the convention also is to use an lowercase name.
```
$ flutter create [APP_NAME]
```

- Move to trash
```
/web
```

#### Dart Basics
Code test site: dartpad

- main() : This function is the first function Dart execute when the file in loaded.
- runApp() : This function builds the main widget and calls build() on it.
- build() : The `build()` method returns the widgets("widget tree") which should be rendered onto the screen.
- Widget: Widgets are the core building of Flutter user interfaces.
  - Every Widget is a Dart object. They need to extend `StatelessWidget` or `StatefulWidget` though (and implement a `build()` method).
  - Widget tree: You build your UI with a combination of (nested) Widgets.
  - Why do we need Widgets?
    - Widgets are the core building block with which you compose rich user interfaces in Flutter.
  - Why do we combine Widgets?
    - You pass Widgets into the constructors of other Widgets to fill certain roles.
  - What makes a Dart object a Widget?
    - Extending StatelessWidget / StatefulWidget and implementing a build() method.


#### Different Type of Widgets

Output & Input (Visible)
- RaisedButton(), Text(), Card(), ...
- Container()
- Drawn onto the screen: "What the user sees"

Layout & Control (Invisible)
- Row(), Column(), ListView(), ...
- Container()
- Give your app structure and control how visible widgets are drawn onto the screen (indirectly visible)

#### Stateful & Stateless Widgets

Stateful Widgets
- Without `setState()`, the Widget does change its property value but it will not re-run the build() method. Hence updates aren't reflected on the screen.
- Input Data (Data can change (externally))
  -> Widget (Internal State)
  -> Renders UI (Gets (re)-rendered when Input Data or local **State** changes)

Stateless Widgets
- StatelessWidget can't re-run build() when its properties changes
- Input Data (Data can change(externally))
  -> Widget 
  -> Renders UI (Gets (re)-rendered when **input Data** changes)